Introduction :-

In this machine learning project, the objective is to predict whether a given sonar signal 
represents a rock or a mine. Logistic regression is a classification algorithm used to predict
the probability of an event occurring. In this project, logistic regression is applied to 
classify sonar signals into two classes: rock and mine.

Dataset :-

The dataset used for this project is the "Sonar, Mines vs Rocks" dataset from the UCI Machine
Learning Repository. It consists of 208 samples, with 60 features each. The features are 
obtained by bouncing sonar signals off a metal cylinder (mine) or a roughly cylindrical rock. 
The data was split into training and test sets, with a 90:10 ratio.

Preprocessing :-

The dataset was preprocessed to handle any missing values. This was done by checking the 
dataset for missing values, and then using the mean of the respective feature to fill in 
the missing values. Additionally, the features were scaled using MinMaxScaler.

Exploratory Data Analysis :-

The dataset was explored to understand the distribution of the features and the relationships 
between them. Histograms and scatterplots were used to visualize the data. The results showed
that there are significant differences between the distributions of the features for rocks 
and mines, which is encouraging for our prediction task.

Model Selection :-

Several machine learning algorithms were considered, decision trees, and random forests. 
After testing these algorithms, we chose the LogisticRegression algorithm as it gave the
best results for our dataset. logistic re work by finding the best hyperplane to separate 
the two classes (rocks and mines), based on the LogisticRegression.

Model Evaluation :-

The performance of the model was evaluated using the test set. The accuracy of the model was
found to be 85%, which is quite good. Precision and recall were also calculated and found to be
85% and 83% respectively. This indicates that the model is performing well for both classes.

Conclusion :-

In conclusion, we have developed a machine learning model to predict whether an object is a rock 
or a mine using sonar signals. The model achieved an accuracy of 85%, which is quite good. Our 
analysis of the dataset showed that there are significant differences between the distributions 
of the features for rocks and mines, which supports the use of machine learning algorithms for 
this problem. However, this is just a preliminary study, and more data could be collected to 
improve the model's performance. Nonetheless, the results obtained in this project can be applied
in real-world applications, such as detecting underwater mines.

References :-

[1] Sonar, Mines vs Rocks Dataset, UCI Machine Learning Repository. 
Available at: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Connectionist+Bench+(Sonar,+Mines+vs.+Rocks)



